Title: Mozillians, win a free pass for Pycon US
Date: 2011-10-13 15:13
Category: mozilla, python

The [10th Pycon US conference][] will happen next March in Santa Clara,
California. This is the biggest Pythoneers gathering in the world.   
  
If you've never been to a Pycon and you like Python, you should
consider coming -- It's a pretty intense week during which you can meet
all the people that are behind the frameworks, libs or event the
language itself. Some Mozillians will be there, no doubt.   
  
It's an exciting time at Mozilla right now - in the WebDev team and the
Services team for example, because we have a lot of folks who are very
active in the Python community. Mozilla itself is active in the
community and people are interested in what we build. They use our open
source Python modules and we use theirs. And we'd love to have more of
this.   
  
Since Mozilla is a Gold sponsor this year, we get 5 free registrations
to the conference, and we would like to give them away to some members
of the Mozilla community. The pass does not cover the hotel and the
travelling, but a registration costs from $200 to $450 (early bird), so
if your budget is tight, it's nice to get a free pass !   
  
I thought about picking people in [http://mozillians.org/][] with a
silly script, but I think it could be more interesting to take this
opportunity to find out what people are doing with Python in the Mozilla
project.   
  
So here's the deal -- if you are or have used Python to help out the
Mozilla project, blog about it. Explain your project, how you've used
Python in it. It can be on any topic, anything, really. Maybe you're
more of a JS guy but you're using Python scripts for some specific
tasks, or maybe you're working everyday with Django or Flask, etc.   
  
Once the blog is published, send me an e-mail ([tarek@ziade.org][])
with a "[pycon+mozilla]" header, and just the link in the body, before
~~December the 1st~~. February the 1st.   
  
I will pick the five stories I found the most interesting and announce
the winners shortly after.

  [10th Pycon US conference]: http://us.pycon.org/2012/
  [http://mozillians.org/]: http://mozillians.org/
  [tarek@ziade.org]: mailto:tarek@ziade.org
