Title: OSCON report #1: the city of Portland
Date: 2008-07-29 05:20
Category: python, zope

Covering [OSCON][] when you are a speaker is quite hard. Until my talk
was done, I was more in a mood of reviewing my slides and not really
thinking about other talks or blogging.   
  
[caption id="attachment\_136" align="alignnone" width="225"
caption="Convention center from the Bridge (the two twin
towers)"][![image][]][][/caption]   
  
I will try to write a few reports now that everything is over. This
first report is about [Portland][], the city and is not technical at
all.   
  
This is the first non-technical entry in my blog, but let's this it for
once. So **if you are looking for technical content, skip this entry**
:)   
  
Portland is an amazing place. The weather was nice throughout the whole
week: sunny and not too hot. Some evenings were a bit chilly but that
felt nice to me. The convention center where OSCON took place was
located on the other side of the Willamette river, in front of the city
center. It is a bit far from the center, but finding places were you can
put so many people must be hard I guess.   
  
The top six things I have noticed about Portland:   
  
**Local beers are great**. You can find many places where they brew
their own beers, that are comparable to Belgian beers in quality and
taste, like the [Lucky Lab][] (Where Jon, a member of the local Plone
user group took us, thanks!). Some place have samples so you can taste
several kinds of beers. I also went to the [Oregon Brewers Festival][]
right after OSCON was over, where you could taste beers from many
places.   
  
[caption id="attachment\_137" align="alignnone" width="225"
caption="Oregon Brewers Festival"][![Beer Festival][]][][/caption]   
  
**Parking a car is a pain**. I think the best way to travel in Portland
is a mix of Tram, Bus and Bike. You can put your bike on the nose of the
buses or inside the trams. Smart thing. This would be useful in Paris.
We ended up parking our car far from the center and used the tram
(called Max, and free in the center). Portland should set up a bike
rental system like in Paris (Velib'), I am sure this would rock.   
  
**Organics**: people here seem to be really concerned about
sustainability and organics. I've been told there are a lot of organics
farm around Portland. Supermarkets have a nice amount of organics stuff
as well. This is nice.   
  
**Starbucks Coffee owns the streets**: this is scary. there's a
Starbucks almost on each block here. Anyway, local coffee shops have
better coffees and they provide nice places to chill out, read a book or
talk with people. I think this is where you can feel the real Portland
way of living.   
  
**The food is good** : I have to admit, when we, french people, travel,
we feel a bit superior to some countries on food matters. We tend to
show off about it :). But Portland has great places to eat. If you like
donuts, the place you must go to is called [Voodoo Doughnut][]. They are
creative !   
  
[caption id="attachment\_138" align="alignnone" width="300"
caption="Voodoo Doughnut"][![Voodoo Donuts][]][][/caption]   
  
**Big open spaces**: I went to Mount Hood where people are skying in...
July. I wanted to visit this place because it is where Stanley Kubrick
did the outside shots of the famous motel in [The Shining][]. I also had
a walk at the Hood river sandbar, where people do kite surfing. One tip:
don't walk there with shorts on, the wind is so strong that you get
slapped by the sand. So if you like big open spaces and sports, Portland
is the place to be: all those place are one or two hours drive from the
city center.   
  
[caption id="attachment\_139" align="alignnone" width="300" caption="Mt
Hood"][![Mount Hood][]][][/caption]   
  
End of the apart√© ! The next entry will focus on OSCON

  [OSCON]: http://en.oreilly.com/oscon2008/public/content/home
  [image]: http://tarekziade.files.wordpress.com/2008/07/img_3591.jpg?w=225
  [![image][]]: http://tarekziade.files.wordpress.com/2008/07/img_3591.jpg
  [Portland]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portland,_Oregon
  [Lucky Lab]: http://www.luckylab.com/html/story.html
  [Oregon Brewers Festival]: http://www.oregonbrewfest.com/
  [Beer Festival]: http://tarekziade.files.wordpress.com/2008/07/img_3585.jpg?w=225
  [![Beer Festival][]]: http://tarekziade.files.wordpress.com/2008/07/img_3585.jpg
  [Voodoo Doughnut]: http://voodoodoughnut.com/
  [Voodoo Donuts]: http://tarekziade.files.wordpress.com/2008/07/img_3614.jpg?w=300
  [![Voodoo Donuts][]]: http://tarekziade.files.wordpress.com/2008/07/img_3614.jpg
  [The Shining]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Shining_(film)
  [Mount Hood]: http://tarekziade.files.wordpress.com/2008/07/img_3402.jpg?w=300
  [![Mount Hood][]]: http://tarekziade.files.wordpress.com/2008/07/img_3402.jpg
